 Connected to: High-frequency trading Network operating system Network switch
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Arista Networks

Type
Public
Traded as	NYSE: ANET
Industry	Networking hardware, Cloud Networking
Founded	October 2004
Headquarters	Santa Clara, California, USA
Key people
Jayshree Ullal, CEO,
Andy Bechtolsheim, CDO & Chairman,
Kenneth Duda, CTO,
Ita Brennan, CFO
Products	Network switches, software
Revenue	Increase US$ 584 million (2014)[1]
Operating income
Increase US$ 126 million (2014)[1]
Net income
Increase US$ 87 million (2014)[1]
Total assets	Increase US$ 811 million (2014)[1]
Total equity	Increase US$ 556 million (2014)[1]
Website	www.arista.com
Arista Networks (previously Arastra[2]) is a computer networking company headquartered in Santa Clara, California, USA. 
The company designs and sells multilayer network switches to deliver software-defined networking (SDN) solutions for large datacenter, cloud computing, 
high-performance computing and high-frequency trading environments. Arista's products include an array of 10/40/100 Gigabit Ethernet low-latency cut-through switches, 
including the 7124SX,[3] which remained the fastest switch[4] using SFP+ optics through September 2012,[5] with its sub-500ns latency, as well as the 7500 series, 
Arista’s award-winning[6] modular 10G/40G/100Gbit/s switch. Arista's own Linux-based network operating system, EOS (Extensible Operating System), runs on all Arista products.

Corporate history
Andy Bechtolsheim co-founded Sun Microsystems in 1982 and was its chief hardware designer. In 1995, 
David Cheriton co-founded Granite Systems with Bechtolsheim, a company that developed Gigabit Ethernet products, which 
was acquired by Cisco Systems in 1996.[7] In 2001, Cheriton and Bechtolsheim founded another start up, Kealia,[8] 
which was acquired by Sun in 2004. From 1996 to 2003, Bechtolsheim and Cheriton occupied executive positions at Cisco, 
leading the development of the Catalyst product line, along with Kenneth Duda who had been Granite Systems' first employee.[9]

In 2004, the three then went on to found Arastra (later renamed Arista[2]). Bechtolsheim and Cheriton were able to fund the company 
themselves.[10] In May 2008, Jayshree Ullal left Cisco after 15 years at the company, and was appointed CEO of Arista in October 2008.[11]

In June 2014, Arista Networks had its initial public offering on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ANET.[12]

In December 2014, Cisco filed two lawsuits against Arista alleging extensive intellectual property infringement.[13]

Products
Extensible Operating System
EOS is Arista's network operating system, and comes as a single image that runs across all Arista devices[14] or in a 
virtual machine.[15] EOS runs on an unmodified Linux kernel under a Fedora-based userland.[16] There are more than 100 independent 
regular processes, called agents, responsible for different aspects and features of the switch, including drivers that manage the switching 
ASICs, the CLI, SNMP, Spanning Tree Protocol, and various routing protocols. All the state of the switch and its various protocols is centralized 
in another process, called Sysdb. Separating processing (carried by the agents) from the state (in Sysdb) gives EOS two important properties. 
The first is software fault containment, which means that if a software fault occurs, the damage is limited to a single agent.[17][18] 
The second is stateful restarts, since the state is stored in Sysdb, when an agent restarts it picks up where it left off.[18] Since agents 
are independent processes, they can also be upgraded while the switch is running (a feature called ISSU – In-Service Software Upgrade).

The fact that EOS runs on Linux allows the usage of common Linux tools on the switch itself, such as tcpdump or usual configuration management 
systems. EOS provides extensive APIs to communicate with and control all aspects of the switch. As a matter of fact, its CLI is a collection of Python 
scripts that simply call into these APIs, while offering a so-called industry standard CLI that resembles the CLI in IOS. To showcase EOS' extensibility, 
Arista developed a module dubbed CloudVision[19] that extends the CLI to use XMPP as a shared message bus for managing and configuring switches.[20] 
This was implemented simply by integrating an existing open-source XMPP Python library with the CLI.

Programmability
In addition to all the standard programming and scripting capabilities traditionally available in a Linux environment, EOS can be programmed using different mechanisms:

Advanced Event Management[21] can be used to react to various events and automatically trigger CLI commands, execute arbitrary scripts or send alerts when 
state changes occur in the switch, such as an interface going down or a virtual machine migrating to another host.
Event Monitor tracks changes made to the MAC, ARP, and routing table in a local SQLite database for later querying using standard SQL queries.[22]
eAPI (External API)[23] offers a versioned JSON-RPC interface to execute CLI commands and retrieve their output in structured JSON objects.
Ethernet switches
Arista's product line can be separated in eight families:

7500E series: Modular chassis with a VOQ fabric supporting up to 4 or 8 store and forward line cards delivering line-rate non-blocking 10GbE, 40GbE, and 
100GbE[24] performance in a 30Tbit/s fabric supporting a maximum of 1152 10GbE ports with 144GB of packet buffer. Each 100GbE ports can also operate 
as 3x40G or 12x10G ports,[25] thus effectively providing 120Gb of line-rate capacity per port.
7300 series: Modular chassis with 4, 8, or 16 line cards with 2.56Tbit/s of capacity per line card, for a fabric totaling up to 40Tbit/s of capacity for 
up to 2048 10GbE ports.[26] Unlike the 7500 series, 10GBASE-T is available on 7300 series line cards.
7200 series: 2U low-latency high-density line-rate 40GbE switches, with 5.12Tbit/s of forwarding capacity.[27]
7100 series: 1U ultra-low latency cut-through line-rate 10Gb switches. The 7124SX has a sub 500ns port-to-port latency, regardless of the 
frame size.[4]
The 7124FX, dubbed the "Application Switch,"[28] includes an Altera FPGA capable of processing 8 x 10Gbit/s, which made possible "cut-through 
high-frequency trading," in which algorithmically generated trades were incurring an additional latency of only 176ns.[29]
7150 series: 1U ultra-low latency cut-through line-rate 10Gb switches. Port-to-port latency is sub-380ns, regardless of the frame size.[30] Unlike the 
7100 series, the switch silicon can be re-programmed[31] to add new features that work at wire-speed, such as VXLAN or NAT/PAT.
7050 series: 1U low-latency cut-through line-rate 10Gb and 40Gb switches. This product line offers a higher port density than the 7100 series, with a 
minimum of 52 x 10GbE ports, at the expense of slightly increased latency (1.2µs or less).
7048 series: 1U store and forward line-rate 1Gb top-of-rack switch, with 4x10Gb uplinks. These switches use a Deep Buffer architecture, with 768MB of packet memory.
7010 series: 1U low power (52W) line-rate 1Gb top-of-rack switch, with 4x10Gb uplinks.[32]
The low-latency of Arista switches has made the platform prevalent in high-frequency trading environments, such as the Chicago Board Options Exchange[33] (
largest U.S. options exchange), Lehman Brothers[34] or RBC Capital Markets.[35] As of October 2009, one third of its customers were big Wall Street firms.[36]

Arista's devices are multilayer switches, which support a range of layer 3 protocols,[37] including IGMP, VRRP, RIP, BGP, OSPF, IS-IS, as well as OpenFlow. 
The switches are also capable of layer 3 or layer 4 ECMP, and applying per-port L3/L4 ACLs entirely in hardware.

All of Arista's switches are built using merchant silicon instead of custom switching ASICs. This strategy enables Arista to leverage 
latest advances in processor manufacturing technology at a lower price point, due to the prohibitive costs associated with the development 
and production of custom chips. Other major competitors such as Cisco and Juniper have also started following the same strategy,[38] 
which led to multiple competing products built on top of the same chips. For instance Broadcom's Trident chip is used in some Cisco 
Nexus switches, Juniper QFX switches, Force10, IBM and HP switches.[39] The integration of the chips with the rest of the system 
including integration with the MAC, PHY, and device drivers on the control plane) and software are what differentiate the competing products.

In November 2013, Arista Networks introduced the Spline network, combining leaf and spine architectures into a single-tier network, which aims to cut operational costs.[40]

Major competitors
Brocade Communications Systems
Cisco Systems
Extreme Networks
Juniper Networks
References
External links
Categories

About Arista

Arista Networks was founded to pioneer and deliver software-driven cloud networking solutions for large data center storage and computing 
environments. Arista’s award-winning platforms, ranging in Ethernet speeds from 10 to 100 gigabits per second, redefine scalability, agility 
and resilience. Arista has shipped more than five million cloud networking ports worldwide with CloudVision and EOS, an advanced network operating system. 
Committed to open standards, Arista is a founding member of the 25/50GbE consortium. Arista Networks products are available worldwide directly and through partners.

.Corporate Profile

Strong Management Team

Arista was founded in 2004, launched in 2008 and is led by Jayshree Ullal. The seasoned management team has a rich and extensive history 
in networking and innovation. Arista was recognized by Gartner as a "leader" in its "2015 Magic Quadrant for Data Center Networking" based 
on a number of factors, including high growth, technology solutions and flexible software. The Arista team is globally recognized as respected 
leaders and visionaries in networking technology.

Customers

Arista has a prestigious set of customers, including leading global technology companies in financials, web 2.0 and cloud/service providers, 
building public and private cloud computing systems. Arista builds scalable data centers for many Fortune 500 companies and delivers products 
worldwide though distribution partners, systems integrators and resellers with a strong dedication to partner and customer success. Headquartered 
in Santa Clara, California, Arista also has offices in San Francisco, Bangalore, Vancouver, Singapore and Ireland.

Product Offerings

Arista’s crown jewel, EOS, is the most advanced network operating system to enable open third party development. 
The award-winning software is built upon a stable, open source Linux core with a central state-oriented database that 
makes EOS inherently self-healing, in-service upgradeable and extremely robust. Arista EOS Central offers access to development tools, 
scripting examples, and support to deliver real-world solutions that bridge the gap between what vendors build and what users want. 
Arista actively shares code samples, engages in collaborative forums, and posts works in progress to get early insight into use cases.

Arista Networks is a leader in building scalable, high-performance and ultra-low latency cloud networks with low power consumption 
and a small footprint for modern data center and cloud computing environments. Purpose-built hardware with Arista 7000 family and Arista EOS, 
aximize system uptime, stateful fault repair, Advanced Event Management, Zero Touch Provisioning, latency analysis and a 
fully accessible Linux shell. Arista’s Ethernet switching solutions include native support for VMware, network-virtualization 
and hundreds of applications. Arista’s hardware platforms are designed to meet the stringent power and cooling requirements of today’s 
most demanding data centers, proven advantages already in use in many of the largest cloud data centers around the world.
and hundreds of applications. Arista’s hardware platforms are designed to meet the stringent power and cooling requirements of today’s 
most demanding data centers, proven advantages already in use in many of the largest cloud data centers around the world.
